
<!-- NEWS.md was auto-generated by NEWS.Rmd. Please DO NOT edit by hand!-->

## RLumShiny 0.2.7 (Release date: 2026-01-18)

- This is a hotfix release to fix a problem with the way internal
  functions are accessed when the package is loaded.

- App `sarCWOSL`:

  - Made the backgroud integral slider adjust according to the value of
    the signal integral slider to avoid overlaps that would generate an
    error in Luminescence.

## RLumShiny 0.2.6 (Release date: 2025-12-18)

**This package version requires R \> 4.4!**

- New application to plot a dose-response curve for luminescence data.
  Base function: `Luminescence::plot_DoseResponseCurve()`. Keyword for
  `app_RLum()`: ‘doseresponsecurve’.

- New application to analyse CW-OSL curve data produced by a SUERC
  portable OSL reader and produces a combined plot of OSL/IRSL signal
  intensities, OSL/IRSL depletion ratios and the IRSL/OSL ratio. Base
  function: `Luminescence::analyse_portableOSL()`. Keyword for
  `app_RLum()`: ‘portableOSL’.

- New application to analyse a standard SAR protocol measurements
  introduced by Murray and Wintle (2000) with CW-OSL curves. Base
  function: `Luminescence::analyse_SAR.CWOSL()`. Keyword for
  `app_RLum()`: ‘sarCWOSL’.

- Made `app_RLum()` ignore case differences when matching app names.

- Made warnings and errors appear as notification in the app, not only
  in the terminal (#40).

## RLumShiny 0.2.5 (Release date: 2025-07-12)

- New application to either estimate the number of grains on an aliquot
  or to compute the packing density. Base function:
  `Luminescence::calc_AliquotSize()`. Keyword for `app_RLum()`:
  ‘aliquotsize’.

- New application to fit a k-component mixture to a De distribution with
  differing known standard errors. Base function:
  `Luminescence::calc_FiniteMixture()`. Keyword for `app_RLum()`:
  ‘finitemixture’.

- New application to calculate the expected sample specific fraction of
  saturation based on the model of Huntley (2006), using the approach as
  implemented in Kars et al. (2008) or Guralnik et al. (2015). Base
  function: `Luminescence::calc_Huntley2006()`. Keyword for
  `app_RLum()`: ‘huntley2006’.

- New application to analyse IRSAR RF measurements on K-feldspar samples
  performed using the protocol according to Erfurt et al. (2003) and
  beyond. Base function: `Luminescence::analyse_IRSAR.RF()`. Keyword for
  `app_RLum()`: ‘irsarRF’.

- New application to determine weighted non-linear least-squares
  estimates of the component parameters of an LM-OSL curve (Bulur 1996)
  for a given number of components. Base function:
  `Luminescence::fit_LMCurve()`. Keyword for `app_RLum()`: ‘lmcurve’.

- Added hints on file format and structure expected in each app (#45).

- App `abanico`:

  - Fix a crash when the summary is disabled
  - Fix a crash when the 2σ bar color is set to none
  - Improve the rounding in the sliders and the appearance of the legend

- App `doserecovery`:

  - Rework some user interface elements
  - Add support for `given.dose = 0` to disable data normalization

- App `histogram`:

  - Improve the step of the x-axis range slider

- App `radialplot`:

  - Improve the appearance of the legend

- App `surfaceexposure`:

  - Rework user interface and add tooltips (#4)

- App `transformCW`:

  - Make the secondary axis label respect the scaling factor (#62)

## RLumShiny 0.2.4 (Release date: 2024-03-21)

**This package version requires R \>= 4.3!**

- Updated to reflect the changes that have occurred in the
  `Luminescence` and `shiny` packages.

- App `cosmicdose`:

  - Google maps window replaced by Open Street Map window
  - Fix crash when switching between different modes (#23)

- App `doserecovery`:

  - Fix partly non-working summary statistics (#2)
  - New checkbox to control the showing of the legend

- App `fastratio`:

  - Fix the matching between point style and their descriptive labels

- App `histogram`:

  - Add support for breaks (#3)

- Non-user visible changes to satisfy CRAN (anchor notes)

## RLumShiny 0.2.3 (Release date: 2022-01-29)

**This package version requires R \> 4.0!**

- Updated `surfaceexposure` app now allows considering multiple mu
  values when using the global fit functionality.

- The `filter` did not work anymore after changes in `'shiny'`; fixed.

- The filter selector icons were deprecated, causing a warning in the
  terminal; fixed.

- The app `RCarb App` did not work anymore after changes in `'shiny'`;
  fixed.

- The app `scalegamma` started with an error message, because one option
  for a chosen conversion factor was wrong; fixed.

## RLumShiny 0.2.2 (Release date: 2019-01-11)

- **PREVIEW**: New application that scales the gamma dose rate
  considering layer-to-layer variations in soil radioactivity. Base
  function: `Luminescence::scale_GammaDose()`. Keyword for `app_RLum()`:
  ‘scalegamma’.

  **NOTE**: This application will only start if the development version
  0.9.x of the R package `Luminescence` is installed as the function
  `scale_GammaDose()` is still under development.

- New application to support the new R package `RCarb`. Base function
  `RCarb::model_DoseRate()`. Keyword for `app_RLum()`: ‘RCarb’

- Removed and updated deprecated links from the “About”-tab in all
  applications.

## RLumShiny 0.2.1 (Release date: 2018-06-18)

- New application that compares the OSL/IRSL stimulation power of
  measurements performed on Freiberg Instruments lexsyg devices to check
  the stability of the stimulation power (Contributed by Sebastian
  Kreutzer). Keyword for `app_RLum()`: ‘teststimulationpower’.

- New application to calculate the fast ratio of CW-OSL curves after
  Durcan and Duller (2011). Base function:
  `Luminescence::calc_FastRatio()`. Keyword for `app_RLum()`:
  ‘fastratio’.

- New application to estimate the g-value from a table of Lx/Tx values
  with corresponding waiting times since irradiation and to apply a
  fading after Huntley & Lamothe (2001). Base functions:
  `Luminescence::analyse_FadingMeasurement()`,
  `Luminescence::calc_FadingCorr()`. Keyword for `app_RLum()`: ‘fading’.

- New application to fit eq. 1 of Sohbati et al. (2012a) or eq. 12 of
  Sohbati et al. (2012b) to OSL surface exposure data. Base function:
  `Luminescence::fit_SurfaceExposure()`. Keyword for `app_RLum()`:
  ‘surfaceexposure’.

- Output panel showing the R code to reproduce the plot/calculation is
  now properly responsive and updates as soon as input widgets change.

- Internal: server logic of most applications simplified.

- Several minor bugfixes.

## RLumShiny 0.2.0 (Release date: 2017-06-26)

- Major overhaul of the data input panel for most applications. Uploaded
  text files are now imported via ‘data.table::fread()’, which
  automatically detects the delimiter and potential headers. Hence, all
  widgets related to data import are no longer required and were removed
  (`#14`).

- The input data can now be directly manipulated in the newly added
  spreadsheet(s) in the data input panels. The spreadsheets also allow
  copy and pasting of data, so uploading a file is no longer the only
  way to provide user data (`#12`).

- New Dashboard addin added. The dashboard provides access to all
  available applications in the package and can be accessed either (i)
  through the addin dropdown menu in the RStudio IDE or (ii) by running
  ‘app_RLum()’ without any keyword.

- Implemented newest shiny feature (v0.14) to bookmark the current app
  state. All apps now include a bookmark button, which returns a URL
  query string that can be used to restore the app’s state at any later
  time.

- New application to plot filter combinations along with the optional
  net transmission. Base function:
  `Luminescence::plot_FilterCombinations()`. Keyword for `app_RLum()`:
  ‘filter’. External contribution by Urs Tilmann Wolpert
  (Justus-Liebig-University Giessen) and Sebastian Kreutzer (Universite
  Bordeaux Montaigne).

- New package dependencies: ‘shinydashboard’, ‘rhandsontable’,
  ‘data.table’, ‘readxl’

- transformCW-app:

  - the plot now also shows the CW-OSL data curve
  - improved error handling

- Internal: R documentation re-written in Markdown using ‘roxygen2
  \>=6.0.0’

- Several minor bugfixes.

## RLumShiny 0.1.1 (Release date: 2016-07-20)

- New application to transform CW OSL curves (keyword ‘transformCW’)
  using the functions ‘CW2pHMi’, ‘CW2pLM’, ‘CW2pLMi’ and ‘CW2pPMi’ of
  the R package ‘Luminescence’.

- Removed UI elements that used now deprecated function arguments.

- Added new UI elements for arguments added to functions after version
  0.4.2 of the ‘Luminescence’ package.

- Removed the database feature in the abanico plot application.

- Removed dependencies on ‘digest’ and ‘RCurl’.

- Removed all ‘Exit’ buttons.

- Code output to reproduce the plots is now generated dynamically and
  should be more reliable.

- R Luminescence Package Team now properly mentioned as contributors.

- Fixed many typos.

## RLumShiny 0.1.0 (Release date: 2015-03-31)

- Initial release
